clothing I wear put together by slave
shop work or sweatshop worker sorry
glasses like it like everything and and
if you wanted to step beyond the slavery
element like all of the stuff that I buy
it goes towards corporations I believe
that wage slavery is unethical the
exploitation of workers and everything
you buy contributes to that unless
you're buying from a co well I remarked
recently on Twitter that you can't work
from the chalkboard to the battlefield
you have to get out on the battlefield
have that real world experience to
understand what the symbols mean when
they're on the chalkboard that is
especially true of the social science of
economics that is especially true of
understanding what's wrong with
communism it's especially true of
understanding what's right with
capitalism what works about capitalism
which doesn't look very convincing when
put out as a theoretical statement on a
chalkboard and the other hand there were
a lot of sort of pleasing illusions
built into a text like this the
communist manifesto by Karl Marx gonna
have a series of videos coming up
criticizing Marx my stay in focus your
camera you know there's a lot of coded
language about class struggle and class
war if you've seen what that means in
practice if you've seen what that means
in the battlefield you know even coded
language about having you know the
centralization of ownership of the means
of production what that really means in
practice it might look good on the
chalkboard but you're seeing a symbolic
diagram of the chalkboard and you're not
really understanding what those symbols
represent so an argument from someone
like vouch whom I regard as a crypto
communist more on that in just a second
it's probably more influential in the
world today in 2019 then the type of
argument we find in Karl Marx's original
writing in the the classics of communist
theory or philosophy and what he's doing
I think powerfully shapes people's lives
in many ways one part of his argument is
something I've addressed many many times
this YouTube channel but now
a couple of years ago it's what I call
the boycott mentality and this is part
and parcel of the purity mentality in
politics the idea that the political
movement is built by and for the
purification of the individual and the
purification of the group or the
quote-unquote vanguard that's engaged in
this movement in this transformative
form of radical politics um the boycott
mentality presumes that the way to
pursue political change is by not buying
things by refusing to buy things and
then inevitably also there's the
critique of the boycott mentality that
leads to his feeling of futility that as
he basically puts it if you can't
boycott everything that's immoral
why boycott anything that's immoral so
if you can't refuse to purchase all of
these terrible things produced by
slavery and exploitation or
what-have-you
then what's the point of just boycotting
one thing or another so the most
fundamental mistake made here with the
boycott mentality is the assumption that
we change history that we change the
political course of nation-states or
cultures by subtraction by not
participating in the economy by not
participating an exploitation by not
participating in politics even but
withdrawing ourselves from the free
market where things were bought and sold
as opposed to seeing yourself as
transforming the culture you're a part
of transform the economy your product
transforming the political system the
nation you're a part of but plunging
deeper into that economy by willing to
but being willing to commit to doing
more harm in the pursuit of the
political goal that you're trying to
achieve here so very simple example PCRM
Physicians Committee for Responsible
medicine ok they're not stereotypical
radicals in most of their photographs
they're wearing full lab coats they're
all most of the leading members are
medical doctors or research scientists
sometimes there were a suit and tie but
whatever PCRM who knows how many
disposable plastic containers they're
using who knows how much harm they're
doing to the environment by taking
flights traveling by air
airplane back and forth between Los
Angeles and Washington DC and New York
and you know they're taking on board you
know they're committed to the pursuit of
their goals and they're willing to do
all kinds of harm in their schools and
they're willing to lobby government and
for example ask for donations and then
take those donations and give them to
lawyers so yeah ethically you might ask
at the midpoint that process okay
so you just collected three hundred
thousand dollars and now you're gonna
take those two in two thousand dollars
and give it to some of the wealthiest
people in the world you're gonna give it
to a law firm in Washington DC to press
your case against Congress you know
arguing about whether or not the amount
of cholesterol and eggs is so unhealthy
that should be illegal to you know
promote eggs as a health food and this
kind of thing
okay so wouldn't it be more ethical to
take the $300,000 and give it to the
poorest of the poor help homeless people
or help starving people in Africa there
are ethical questions you can ask at
every stage of that including as I say
the air pollution produced by the
airplanes and the answer is no you don't
change the world by refusing to buy
airplane tickets you don't change the
world by refusing to buy meat or by
refusing to buy alcohol or refusing to
buy crack cocaine you change the world
by making a positive commitment to go
out and actually make that change happen
as you force that change hey you know
what I'd like I'd like to live in a
country where there are no cocaine
addicts where there were no drug addicts
no heroin addicts let's say want to
eliminate cocaine hearing do you think
I'm going to accomplish that through a
boycott do you think I'm going to
accomplish that by just refusing to
purchase cocaine and heroin myself do
you think I'm gonna do that just by
having a boycott movement where I invite
others and motivate others and have
rallies and maybe picnics and political
festivals where we celebrate our boycott
will pat ourselves in the back and act
like we're so morally superior because
we refuse to buy cocaine and we refuse
to buy heroin no that's never gonna
change the world it's never in transform
the world in fact if you're serious
about reducing the levels of cocaine and
heroin being bought and sold being
consumed in ours
you're gonna have to embrace doing quite
a lot of harm you're probably gonna have
to imitate some of the most successful
countries in the world at reducing and
eliminating drug use countries like
Japan countries like Singapore countries
like Communist China where yeah a
certain level of draconian repression
where you know the police really do get
get tough food drugs get tough on crime
I used to live in a part of China that
was right on the border with a civil war
zone where opium and quite a number of
other drugs like methamphetamines and
MDMA ecstasy were being produced refined
and traded openly there were rebel
armies walking distance from where I
lived there were rebel armies who were
you know trading opium for guns okay and
where I was I was on the Chinese side of
the border not a single drug addict
visible in the whole city
not a single homeless person on drugs
there were there were posters up letting
you know that if you use drugs jail it
was a very very effective you know
repressive government there and also a
culture that in a positive way
encouraged mental vigilance acuity
sobriety but yeah you were right next to
a war zone full of illicit drugs and yet
in that part of Union this is bordering
on Kachin State this is the catch in
Jing pol Shan State armies bunch of
different rebel armies active in that
neighborhood so yeah if you want to
pursue that goal the way to get there is
not going to be a boycott now guys I'm
so critical I'm vegan but I do not
believe that the function of veganism
the positive impact of veganism is
achieved through a boycott I think the
boycott is just stage one she's
basically like a social media exercise
where we commit to this boycott we
engage in this boycott and then we get
to meet one another we get to recruit
talent to do exactly the kind of thing
PCRM
is doing already to get organized and
make a positive difference to the world
so guess what guess what though if you
sincerely want to help the factory
workers if you sincerely want to get out
improve labor conditions in China in
Vietnam in Indonesia if you want to
improve labor conditions even in the
great state of Texas in the USA the way
to do that is not through a boycott
you're never going to achieve those
goals just by you personally committing
that you're not going to buy the shirts
because you think it's the product of
exploitation ok look
step two of his argument it says that
getting into his appealed to futility
fallacy is he presents the whole world
and so evil he predicts of all
consumption as being so overwhelmingly
evil that there's no point in him
boycotting just one thing or another he
has to resign himself to the idea that
his t-shirt is produced by terrible
exploitation unless he says unless it's
produced by a co-op ok so this gets into
the profound ethical significance of
ignorance and knowledge and what's in
between ignorance and knowledge is
active research ok we're all born
ignorant and if you've managed to make
it to age 25 congratulations
congratulations and not committing
suicide make it a Chifa if you've
managed to make it to age 25 you will
have had at least a few examples in your
life where you look back at decisions
you made and think if only I had known
more I would never have done that thing
I would never have made that compromise
you look back at decisions in your life
with tremendous regret because what we
know changes how we feel what we know
changes what we regard as ethical or
unethical knowing what I know about
cheese produced from Cal Milk
I can't enjoy cheese I can't just set
that aside right there was a time when I
was a child I didn't know these things I
didn't think my parents weren't vegan
and what-have-you and you know so
obviously my perception and my
experience of what it is to eat cheese
is profoundly different ok so you know
ignorant matters knowing matters and
being motivated to engage in active
research to change your perception of
the world and change what it is you're
I'm going to do really matters but you
know that change doesn't all go in one
direction it's not the case that
researching the reality of factory
conditions is just going to lead to your
radicalization I really don't believe
that so for example he suggests that
everything is exploitation unless it's a
co-op and the selection of examples is
telling he talks about where your
t-shirt is made but I guess that's a
little bit mysterious to him because
he's never visited a t-shirt factory
he's never done any research into the
reality of t-shirt protect so let's
let's start with an example that's
really not too mysterious at all not
even for comments let's talk about the
grocery store okay so from various point
of view what he's claiming is that
working in a grocery store for $12 an
hour is slavery is exploitation his
quote unquote wage liberty he regards
that as completely immoral unless the
grocery store you're working at is a
co-op so in this case in this example
you may know people dear viewer you you
probably know a few people who've worked
at a grocery store and you've been to a
grocery store you've seen what their
jobs are like it's not so mysterious
I've known people who worked in grocery
stores I never had that job myself
oh yeah actually I have works in a
grocery store a long time ago okay
anyway yeah so who else working at Pro
Street store did I feel my fellow
workers were horribly exploited and then
if I compared what I was doing to the
employees at a co-op cuz I've known a
few grocery store co-ops whether you
live in United States Canada or Europe
you've been to a few grocery store
co-ops and what do you know life is not
that different in fact you may know a
private for-profit grocery store that
pays its employees better than the coop
you may know individual employees at the
co-op who say they hate their job and
they feel they're being exploited and
they want to go work at a grocery store
that's a heartless corporation instead
because they think they'll have a better
deal they'll work better hours they'll
better conditions whatever it is okay
the reality of the difference it makes
working for a corporation versus working
for a co-op is
unbelievably slippery and trivial I mean
you know that I've said this before in a
video but the prices on the products may
be slightly higher the wages of the
employees may be slightly higher the
level of professionalism and innovation
and the management may be lower but
these are not worlds apart it's not as
if when you go to a co-op you feel like
you're walking into a socialist utopia
and when you walk into a corporate
grocery store you're feeling you're
walking into a capitalist dystopia
they're so close it's laughable now I'd
like to suggest to you dear viewer that
if you walk into a factory that makes
t-shirts and you walk into a co-op that
makes t-shirts it's not all that
different another example that I've had
a lot of contact with his bacon if you
take a minute to think about the lot of
the common baker the life of a baker
it's not the case at all that being a
self-employed baker is necessarily
better than being employed in a large
factory there are many many advantages
to being employed as a baker in a
factory regular hours regular pay no
risk to yourself if you are a small
self-employed bespoke Baker the main
advantage you have is tax evasion most
of the people who do small-scale baking
like that they could be creative with
what they report to the government with
how much money they made they get paid
cash in hand and so on but I mean just
in terms of the grueling schedule you
have to work if you want to bake your
own bread or bake your own cross all and
then go and sell them at a farmers
market or a County Fair or something
when you are your own boss and you are
your own employee and you have to buy
your own ingredients at your own risk
and you have to calculate your own
profit and losses it is not easy to say
it all that the self-employed Baker is
less exploited than the Baker who's
employed in a in a large-scale Factory
what is easy to say is that the large
scale factory is much more efficient and
because of that greater efficiency often
the factory can provide a much higher
quality of life for all of its employees
right which is measured in pay benefits
and a
considerations including like how many
hours of sleep you get a night because
baking very long hours often starting at
2:00 a.m. maybe four am depending on the
bakery that's true for small bakeries
and large so again a lot of left-wing
people they go into a situation like
that with the attitude smallest
beautiful wage laborers exploitation you
know whereas being self-employed or
being part of a co-op magically solves
those problems because you no longer
have quote unquote the exploitation of
man by man that's an old communist
canard and again if you actually learn
these things if you don't work from the
chalkboard to the battlefield if you go
and learn what these things really how
they really work in the economy on the
battlefield and then work your way back
to the chalkboard you're gonna have a
much richer understanding these things
so look guys ignorance matters and what
we learn and what we know changes that
we feel and if you take the time to
really learn about where your t-shirts
come from what it's like to work in a
factory the advantages and disadvantages
of being employed in manufacturing of
any kind whether it's in a you know a
textile factory or in a computer
assembly Factory you will start to
understand why people volunteer for
these jobs why farmers are eager to give
up working on their parents farm and
start a new life in the city
manufacturing t-shirts manufacturing
computers so on and so forth I don't
want to give too many long engines here
but I used to live in Southeast Asia and
Laos and Cambodia and northeastern
Thailand I visited many factories I did
research on factories and factory
conditions including human rights
research this ghoulish picture that's
being painted by left-wing extremists
that any employment of any kind is just
too horrible to behold well when I lived
in the capital city of Laos vhn there
were teenage girls who would drop out of
high school to go and work in a t-shirt
factory they made other kinds of clothes
to you whatever t-shirts blue jeans you
name it and they would buy themselves
the fanciest motorcycles that existed
there they would be earning so much
money
teenagers who had dropped out of high
school that they were they were teenage
girls in the capital city of the country
and they earned more money than their
own parents their own parents would be
back living on the rice farm and they'd
say wow this is an amazing opportunity
so the purchasing power of the wage they
had and the freedom and options an
opportunity that gave them at an early
age and then when he stretched it out
over a full life cycle like okay well so
they got this great start in life
working in a factory as a teenager what
did they go on to do afterwards when I
did social science research on this in
Cambodia the number one answer for the
women working at our clothing factory so
again not just t-shirts but including
t-shirts the number one answer for what
you plan to do when you leave this job
was that they were opening their own
shops they were opening their own you
know and I saw some of those too they
were opening their own small factories
they were opening their own tailoring
shops or what have you they were taking
the skills they learned in a factory and
going on to business for themselves and
the vast majority of the employees in
those factories they would only work for
about two years so I mean some of them
want to switch and go into a totally
different field so they worked for one
year or two years save up a pile of
money and then go open a shop go into
another business go back to school go
and do whatever it is they wanted to do
with the rest of hives but it was not
the case at all in Cambodia and Laos
that working in a factory was a dead-end
job that it was a hopeless job that it
was a low-paying job in that society and
the reality of the work they're doing
what is it you imagine that's so
horrible about actually stitching two
pieces of fabric together I've mentioned
this before on the channel there is a
documentary you can see you can see it
here on YouTube or you can pay to see it
somehow else or on the internet but
there is a fact there's a documentary
showing clothing factory conditions in
China that is called China blue I would
just warn you there are two different
versions of the film one has been edited
down to just one hour to broadcast on TV
I really recommend you watch the longer
version of the film it's better but you
get to see the human reality and yeah
the documentary is meant to be shocking
it's meant to wake you up to the fact
that a lot of factory workers in China
leave in terrible conditions but guess
what if you want to make the world a
better place if you
to improve factory conditions in China
you have to get motivated you have to
get organized you have to actually get
out and positively make the world a
better place you can never make those
changes by just subtracting yourself
from the equation but your decision to
not buy a new t-shirt at all it's never
going to achieve those political
objectives and you know what if you
start flying back and forth between
Washington DC and you and China so you
can visit factories in China and maybe
film the conditions there and then go
back to America and Lobby the government
and say hey we need tariffs we need to
enforce you know higher standards for
working editions in China we need to
punish American companies that are
profiting by exporting their kids away
you know what you can never compensate
for the damage you have done to the
Earth's upper atmosphere you can never
take back the pollution you've caused
when you commit positively to achieve
something in this world when you commit
to political action whether it be in
peace or in war whether it be in
democracy or whether it be fighting
against a dictatorship okay you are
committing to do harm you're committing
to do damage along the way to achieving
that positive goal that's why ethics
matter
that's why politics matters that's what
we all had this terrible dreadful sense
that at bottom were dangerous people and
the road to hell is paved with good
intentions some of the first terrible
disasters in the whole of human history
including the creation of communism in
China and Russia some of those things
that were taken up as experiments by
people who sincerely believed they were
making the world a better place and what
they ended up to me instead was killing
millions millions of people I mean
really people like to disrespect my
shoes but the fact that
my name is I don't know